You always say do the simple thing first
and add intelligence only if necessary.
What happens if we just do
Euclidean distance here?
>> Let's try it and find out.
Here are some reasonable delta frequency
numbers for the top and bottom graphs.
>> The top time series has 21 samples,
but the bottom one only has 12.
>> How do we do a Euclidean distance?
>> A simple thing to do is
pad the bottom one with 0s.
>> That's reasonable.
Other options would be to fill in with
the average value or the last value, but
any of these options will work for
our example.
>> Now we can figure out the Euclidean
distance by simply doing the square root
of the squares of the differences.
Let's see, 0 minus 0 squared is 0,
0 minus 5 squared is 25.
>> And 2 minus 5 squared is 9.
And 3 minus 5 squared is 4.
>> And so on.
Doing the math, we get the square root
of 170, which is approximately 13.
>> Yep, now let's try using dynamic
time warping through the same problem.